Git integration documentation (#498)
files-community/Website: src/routes/docs/configuring/git-integration/+page.md

---
title: Manage repositories with Git
---

> Integration with Git allows you to work more easily with your projects. You can create and manage repository branches directly from Files. You can also pull changes from a remote repository and open a repository in VS Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integration with Git allows you to work more easily with your projects. You can create and manage branches directly from Files. You can pull and push changes to remote repos, and open them in VS Code.```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Using Git in Files

No additional setup is required, opening a Git folder in Files will automatically detect and display the branch name on the Status Bar.

### Switching branches

Clicking the branch name will open a flyout with the list of available branches, you'll also be able to create a new branch from this flyout.
```

---
title: Manage repositories with Git
---

Integration with Git allows you to work more easily with your projects. You can create and manage branches directly from Files. You can pull and push changes to remote repos, and open them in VS Code.```

## Using Git in Files

No additional setup is required, opening a Git folder in Files will automatically detect and display the branch name on the Status Bar.

### Switching branches

Clicking the branch name will open a flyout with the list of available branches, you'll also be able to create a new branch from this flyout.
## How to see repository branches

To see repository branches, follow these steps:

- Navigate to the folder containing the repository.
- Click the name of the current branch in the bottom right corner.

> You will see a list of all local and remote repository branches.

Reviewer: I think this is covered by the "switching branches" section.

> ## How to create a new branch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to create a new branch
```

To create a new branch, follow these steps:

- Navigate to the folder containing the repository.
- Click the name of the current branch in the bottom right corner.
- Click the "Create branch" button in the menu that appears.
- Enter the name of the new branch, select the base of the new branch and choose whether you want to switch to the new branch after creation.
- Click the "Create" button.

## How to switch to another branch

To switch to another branch, follow these steps:

- Navigate to the folder containing the repository.
- Click the name of the current branch in the bottom right corner.

> - Click the branch you want to switch to in the menu that appears.

Reviewer: This is covered already

> ## How to pull changes from a remote repository

Reviewer: Can you update this to reflect the changes in the preview builds?

Author: Sure!

To pull changes from a remote repository, follow these steps:

- Navigate to the folder containing the repository.
- You will see the number of commits to pull in the bottom right corner next to the branch button.
- Click the Pull button to pull changes from the remote repository.

> ## Git columns in the details layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Git columns in the Details layout
```

Opening a Git repository in the details layout displays additional columns for Git status, last commit, commit hash, and commit author. These columns can be toggled by right-clicking the column headers.

> ## Opening a Git repository in VS Code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Opening a Git repository in VS Code
```

> When browsing a Git repository, the status bar shows a button that allows you to open a folder in VS Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When browsing a Git repository, the status bar shows a button that allows you to open a folder in VS Code. Opening a folder with a Visual Studio solution file will display an option to open the solution in Visual Studio.
```
